# Mapping Communities Placed at Highest Risk of Experiencing the Negative Effects of Extreme Heat

This project used Streamlit, a Python package that allows users to create an interactive web app, to create a web app focused on the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), which is operated by the U.S. federal government. The Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) has been administered by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) since 1981 to provide low-income households with financial assistance to cover energy bills (heating, cooling) and weatherization of their homes. LIHEAP is a program highlighted under the Biden Administration’s Justice40 Initiative, which pledges to allocate 40 percent of federal investments in climate-tangential areas to communities historically overburdened by pollution and the negative effects of climate change.

The LIHEAP program offers financial assistance to households in need of support with energy (heat and cooling) and weatherization expenses. Program leaders anticipate that due to climate change, the program’s role in supporting families with their cooling expenses will increase substantially over the next few decades and grow to be a larger proportion of the program’s main focus. The LIHEAP program provides benefits to households with low incomes, older adults, young children, and people with disabilities. These populations match some of the communities that the the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has indicated are placed at highest risk of experiencing the negative effects of extreme heat due to climate change.

This app retrieves publicly available data from the 2019 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates related to the populations described above that are at highest risk of experiencing the negative effects of extreme heat. Variables can be explored in a variety of ways to understand variation across the United States in terms of proportions of populations in each state. An average vulnerability index is also calculated based on the available data to demonstrate which states have the highest proportions of populations vulnerable to extreme heat.

The fully rendered Streamlit app can be found here: https://carolineeadams-liheap-streamlit-app-streamlit-app-liheap-2ead65.streamlit.app/
